## Welcome to My Blog

### A Memorable Computer Scence Class
March 23rd, 2017

  A memorable computer science course during my four years here at Wheaton College was COMP298 -Startup v1.0 Machine Learning.  In this course, we were trying to figure out what we could do to help people with diabetes manage their data better then produce something that did that.  We started out by learning information about diabetes and hearing it from a staff member on campus who lives with it, which she was generous enough to share her data with us so we could play around with the numbers and try to get what we’d eventually come up with working.  Using the data we were given, we had to understand what all the different variables meant and how they affected each other and what affected each of them.  This took some time to understand and fully wrap our heads around everything but once we got the gist of it we were able to come up with a plan of how to precede for the rest of the semester.  
  
  The class broke up into five groups: database, UI/UX, machine learning, reports, and webpage.  The database group was tasked with making a database for all the data and information to be stored in that could be accessed for the other groups to use.  The UI/UX team was to make an iOS application so the user had a nice interface to use our product.  Machine learning was coming up with different ways to use the data we were given and make algorithms with it to hopefully come up with a way to find where a point would be in the future.  The reports team was to take the data we had and find different ways to display it so that it was interactive and useful to the user.  Finally, the webpage team made a webpage to showcase our app and the reports. 
  
  As a class, we all learned some machine learning algorithms on flower data just so we all had a sense of what machine learning can do and could think of what we could do from there with our data.  We decided that the best way to show our data in the end would be to build an iOS application, which is done using Apples programming language of Swift.  So, we all learned different aspects of the language and presented our part to the class which was eventually helpful to the UI/UX team since the different parts discussed in class played into making the app that we wanted.  
  
  This class was memorable since we were trying to work on a real-world problem, which was that people who are diagnosed with diabetes don’t that great of a way to look at their data.  Which we were trying to help those people by hopefully making their lives easier with all our work.  Sure, different companies send monthly reports that you must go and look through all the papers to get what you actually want but even with those there’s a lot of information missing since not everything can be said about every glucose reading.  Even though we didn’t have enough time in the semester to get all our ideas completely working to their fullest potential we still made a lot of progress towards our goal and hopefully our work will be carried out or used in the future and not just forgotten. 



### My First Computer Science Class
January 31st, 2017

  Going into my first computer science class I never would have expected to go as far as I have with it.  I took 
COMP115 - Robots, Games, and Problem Solving, the second semester of my freshman year of college with Professor 
Armstrong.  Most people in my class were only taking the class as a connection or because they needed a 
quantitative analysis class to complete their degree.  I had another reason in mind for taking the class, my 
original purpose was only since the math department would consider the class as a two hundred level math class 
towards a Mathematics major, which was what I was leaning towards at the time.  Going into the class I knew 
nothing about what we were learning, using computers is something we’ve been being taught since the first grade 
but learning how to program in a computer language was a whole other world. 

  I don’t exactly remember the first day of the class besides sitting across from my preceptor, who was the only 
person I recognized in the class.  Class time was mostly spent with the professor showing us stuff on the 
computer and typing code into the command prompt or PowerShell which we then typed on our own computers.  A 
majority of the time I didn’t understand what was happening so I tried to save it on the screen or open another 
application so I could go back to it and it wouldn’t disappear.  This was my first class where everything was 
done on the computer, there were hardly ever any written notes on the board but I still tried to write down as 
much as I could or whatever I understood at the moment.  

  We used Codecademy to help us learn the basics of python, which was very helpful since it gives you information
about the syntax and different lessons about how it works.  Throughout the semester there were long nights of 
lying on my dorm room floor trying to figure out the different projects or labs and getting all kinds of errors
and different bugs that I didn’t know how to fix or if it was even possible to fix them.  Which at that point 
Google wasn’t even that helpful since any response I got from it made almost absolutely no sense to me seeing as 
I didn’t know or understand most of what it was saying.     

  At that point I never would have guessed that I would have loved it and would end up making computer science my 
second major.  I did not know what I was getting myself into when I chose to take the class but there was 
something about it that I just had to continue. 
